Transformations: Fields to labels (#37987)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/panels/transformations/fields-to-labels.md

+++

> title = "Fields to labels"

Reviewer: Do we need a new topic here? Let's add this information in the "Transformation types and options" topic, as a section after https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/panels/transformations/types-options/#labels-to-fields.

weight = 300
+++

# Fields to labels transform

> **Note:** This is a new beta transformation introduced in v8.1.

> This transformation allows you to split time series to multiple time series based on the values of selected fields which also become label values for their respective time series. This transformation provides the inverse behavior to the [Labels to fields]({{< relref "./types-options.md#labels-to-fields" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This transformation allows you to split time series data into multiple time series based on the values of selected fields. These selected fields become label values for their respective time series. Selecting multiple **Label fields** as label value results in as many time series as the unique label value combinations in your input data.
This behavior of this transformation is the opposite of [Labels to fields]({{< relref "./types-options.md#labels-to-fields" >}}) transform.
```

## Example

> Given a query result with a single time series:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows the query result with a single time series:
```

| Time               | Datacenter | Server A | Server B |
| ------------------ | ---------- | -------- | -------- |
| 2021-08-17 2:14:35 | EU         | 1        | 2        |
| 2021-08-17 2:14:35 | US         | 3        | 4        |
| 2021-08-17 2:15:05 | EU         | 1        | 3        |
| 2021-08-17 2:15:05 | US         | 3        | 5        |

If we configured the transformation to use the Datacenter field to create labels, this would result in two time series like these:

- Series 1: label Datacenter=EU
  | Time | Server A | Server B |
  | ------------------ | -------- | -------- |
  | 2021-08-17 2:14:35 | 1 | 2 |
  | 2021-08-17 2:15:05 | 1 | 3 |
- Series 2: label Datacenter=US
  | Time | Server A | Server B |
  | ------------------ | -------- | -------- |
  | 2021-08-17 2:14:35 | 3 | 4 |
  | 2021-08-17 2:15:05 | 3 | 5 |

## Configuration

> You may select multiple **Label fields** which will be used as label values. As a result you will get as many time series as there are unique label field combinations coming from your input data.

Reviewer: remove
